We welcome all of you to the January 2019 broadcast.
The 2018 annual meeting of the Watchtower Bible and Track Society of Pennsylvania was held
on October 6, 2018.
The program was comprised of spiritually upbuilding talks and encouraging reports.
It also included faith strengthening interviews, such as one with a member of the governing
body, Brother Garrett Lush.
Please enjoy the first part of the 2018 annual meeting.
The theme for my opening talk is appreciating our spiritual paradise,
and such a subject is very appropriate on a special occasion like this.
When I'll let me ask you this, when were Jehovah's people taken into spiritual captivity
by Babylon the Great? Well, we know we've learned recently.
It was some time in the 2nd century CE.
After the death of the last of the apostles who were acting as a restraint and imitation Christians,
they began to infiltrate the congregation and the ugly baby Christendom was born.
But now when did that captivity end? Well, we know 1919.
The year when true anointed Christians came out of captivity and pure worship was restored.
And that means, because this is year 2018, Jehovah's people have been set free for 99 years,
almost 100 years now. Now, what has been the spiritual condition of Jehovah's people during
these nearly 100 years? Well, our condition has become more and more paradisac.
And today, it is truly like an exquisite paradise, just like the Garden of Eden was truly an
exquisite physical paradise. In fact, let's compare, let's discuss some similarities
between that original paradise and our spiritual paradise. And we'll see, it is
paradisic, this condition that we're in. Now, here's the first similarity. The Garden of Eden,
of course, had a land. Well, our spiritual paradise has a land. What is the land?
The July 1st, 1995 watchtower said about how in 1919, Jehovah brought the anointed remnant out
of captivity to Baben the Great. And then it says that that anointed group became a new
born nation. But then it asked, what is the land though? Here's the answer. It is the realm of
activity granted to the newborn nation. A place where Bible prophecies have a modern spiritual
fulfillment. So if you get that, the realm of activity where the anointed fulfill Bible prophecies.
But now, here's a second similarity. Like the Garden of Eden, our spiritual paradise has
beautiful plants and trees. Now, we certainly know that was true of the Garden of Eden
where Adam and Eve were. But what about in our spiritual paradise? Who are the plants and trees?
Well, the Bible likens God's people to plants and trees. Here's what First Corinthians 3
9 says, you, God's people, are God's field under cultivation. Or think of Isaiah 61-3. And they,
talking about God's people, will be called big trees of righteousness, the planting of Jehovah.
And just like those plants and trees in the Garden of Eden, these figurative plants and trees
bear much fruit, the fruitage of lips, the fruitage of the spirit. And just looking in the
audience, we see many big, beautiful plants and trees sitting out there. And we're happy to have
you. But now, here is a third similarity. Like the Garden of Eden, our spiritual paradise has a
abundant food. Jehovah foretold it would exist and a contrast. He said in Isaiah 65-13, look,
my servants will eat, but you will go hungry. And especially today, that contrast is
more and more evident, isn't it? Between what? The people of the world are being served on the
table of namens and what we are being served on the table of Jehovah. I mean, they're served
empty calories, junk food, poison food. But we have a smorgasbord, a spiritual thanks, don't we?
We have these delight, not only nutritious, but delicious things served in our publications,
meetings, assemblies, conventions, JWU.org, more recently, JWU Broadcasting. This is JWU Broadcasting
from the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses. You can see I'm still working on that.
Here's a fourth similarity. The Bible tells us that out of the Garden of Eden, a river float.
So it must have been a large river and it divided into four other rivers. Well,
there must have been abundant refreshing water in the Garden of Eden. Well, likewise in our
spiritual paradise, we have abundant spiritual water. And again, Jehovah foretold it and the contrast.
Isaiah 65-13, Jehovah said, look, my servants will drink, but you will go thirsty.
Makes me think of one young man who was learning the truth. This is what he said, a young man in
Africa, in his life story in the watchtower. He said, it seemed that my church had been giving me
acid to drink, but now I was freely receiving the water of life. And he was so thankful to be set free
from the Trinity worship of ancestors and so forth. Jehovah gives the invitation at Revelation 22-17
come and let anyone thirsting come, let anyone who wishes take life's water free. And we know that
water represents all of Jehovah's provisions for gaining everlasting life. Now, here's a fifth
similarity. Like the Garden of Eden, our spiritual paradise is a place that has many harmless
animals. Now, what do we mean by this? Well, here's what the watchtower said about this or should
say Isaiah's prophecy concerning the scripture. And we should read this first, Isaiah 65-25, here's
what Jehovah foretold about harmless animals. Isaiah 65-25, the wolf and the lamb will feed together.
The lion will eat straw just like the bull. And the serpent's food will be dust, they will do no harm,
not cause any ruin in all my holy mountain says Jehovah. Now, there'll be a literal fulfillment of
this in the New World, but there's a figurative, a spiritual fulfillment right now. And here's what Isaiah
prophecy said concerning that scripture we just read, those coming into their spiritual paradise
make remarkable changes in their lives. The ones that previously had beasts like personalities,
the books had, with the help of the Holy Spirit, they make drastic changes. And they tame those
undesirable traits. So that was the explanation of that scripture we just read, see? And what a
pleasure it is to fellowship with you dear former wolves lions and bears and serpents also.
Throw that in there. Now, you know, as I said, former, in your former condition, I wouldn't have
wanted to meet many of you in a dark alley. And you would definitely say that about me if I hadn't
been raised in the truth. But what a pleasure to have these figurative, harmless animals. Now,
here's a six comparison. Like the Garden of Eden, our spiritual paradise is a garden that needs
maintenance. Now, would you say Jehovah's doing maintenance in the spiritual paradise? Well, here's
Jesus' answer. Look at John chapter 15, John 15 and verse 2, Jesus said, he, Jehovah, takes away
branch in me, not bearing fruit. And he cleans everyone bearing fruit so that it may bear more fruit.
Now, if you think of taking away unproductive branches, cleaning productive ones to make a more
productive, is that not garden maintenance? Well, what about us? Are we expected to do maintenance?
Well, here's what, um, organized to do Jehovah's will books at. Your faith has brought you into a
spiritual paradise benefiting from that paradise. You have the responsibility to help maintain it.
And then the book went on to say by applying Bible counsel. We help maintain our spiritual paradise.
Here's one more similarity. Number seven, our spiritual paradise, like the Garden of Eden,
has boundaries. Now, regarding the Garden of Eden, here's what the inside book said,
it seems to have been an enclosed area, bounded, no doubt, by natural barriers. And then it
went on to say it had an entrance on the eastern side. And that, of course, was where the cherubs
were placed to block the entrance. Well, what about our spiritual paradise? What are the boundaries?
Well, here's a few examples. First Corinthians 5-11, stop keeping company with anyone who gets
disfellowshipped. We're separate, a boundary. Revelation 18-4, get out of the bottom of the great.
Separate, a boundary. What about John 17-14? We must be no part of the world as Jesus was no part
of the world. Separate, a boundary. But interestingly, Satan the devil was able to lure
Adam and Eve out of their beautiful paradise home. And he's trying very hard to lure every
one of us here, out of the boundaries of our wonderful spiritual paradise. But we're determined,
we're not going to let that happen. But there we have seven similarities. And I'm sure you can
think of others. But truly, the situation we're in, the condition as Jehovah's people is paradoxic.
And it is proof. The reality of this spiritual paradise is proof that a literal paradise will,
likewise, soon, become reality. But now, moving ahead in our program, we're going to have a privilege
to look at a video. The title of it courage to stand firm in a time of trial. And our video will
be narrated by Brother Rick Ford, who serves as the overseer of the headquarters museum department
at Warwick. And you're going to enjoy this. Brother Ford is going to really tell you about something
you're going to look forward to visiting. So let's look at the monitors, please.
Courage to stand firm in a time of trial. That's the story of the Bible students from 1914 to 1919.
And the theme of a new exhibit at World Headquarters. The tests they faced in those
few pivotal years are part of our spiritual heritage that can strengthen our courage now.
And for what lies ahead? In the years, just before 1914, anticipation was high.
Since 1876, Charles Tay's Russell had published that the Gentile Times would end in October 1914.
Many believed it would mean the end of their preaching work, and they're being taken to heaven to rule
with Christ. The Bible students spread their message by every means possible. Tracks, pamphlets,
and then in 1886, with the plan of the ages, the first book in the Millennial Dawn series later
called Studies in the Scriptures. In December 1911, Brother Russell embarked on an around the
world tour. And he went on an 8,000 mile transcontinental train tour in 1913, where 1914 came,
so did a new way to expand the work, the photo drama of creation.
The Bible's message was now reaching millions. With 1914 turnout as they had hoped.
On June 28, Austria's Archduke Ferdinand was assassinated, triggering the start of the Great War.
The end of the Gentile Times seemed to be fulfilling expectations.
We held a convention at Columbus, Ohio. I recall how that on June 28, right in the midst of that
convention, why there was a shock fired that was heard around the world. When we read the newspaper,
we said, aha, there it is, there it is. The Gentile Times are drawing to their close.
But 1914 brought unexpected trials that would test the Bible students' faith as never before.
The year 1914 came and it went. Contrary to expectations, the heavenly reward did not come.
As they wondered how much longer they would need to preach, they confronted a devastating turn
of events. Brother Russell died suddenly on October 31, 1916. We did not know what to do.
It was so unexpected and yet Russell had tried to prepare us for it. What would we do?
The first shock of our loss of CT Russell was the worst. For those first few days, our future was a
blank wall. In time, some felt that all that God saw fit to reveal had come through Brother Russell
and that the revelation of truth had now ended. After Joseph F. Rutherford was selected as the
new president, Decent arose among the society's directors. On July 17, 1917, the tension exploded
with the publication of the finished mystery, the seventh volume of studies in the scriptures
based largely on Brother Russell's earlier writings. On that morning, a lengthy debate erupted,
right in the Bethel dining room. Vicious charges were hurled against Rutherford and his oversight.
Although four society directors were soon dismissed from Bethel, they soon began spreading their
opposition by an extensive speaking and letter writing campaign that threatened to divide the
organization. To just just organize the congregation they try to put Brother Russell's book.
So my uncle, he said, well, this didn't happen Brother Russell's day. I'm going to quit the whole
business and just read Brother Russell's books. I said, well, I'm not going to quit the society.
I was convinced that the society's God's arrangement. Another threat soon emerged.
The finished mysteries distribution sparked renewed opposition from religious and political leaders.
The book was banned first in Canada and then in the United States. How did the Bible students
respond? They launched a courageous campaign to distribute Kingdom News 1, 2, and 3.
These boldly exposed clergy abuses and defended the Bible students' scriptural position.
But with war still raging, the next challenge demanded attention.
In many countries, brothers took a neutral stand as conscientious objectors.
We were put into cells to look more like dungeons.
Due to our refusal to undergo military drill, a number of us were taken to a secluded part of the
prison yard. Lined up, there were a number of men in uniform with canes in their hands.
One by one, we were ordered to run the length of the court. If the pace was too slow,
we were seized and dragged the distance and subjected to lashes on the back and legs.
Beyond those persecuted for refusing military service, others endured physical abuse
instigated by the clergy because of their courageous preaching. Any uncertainty our brothers
may have felt was only intensified by what happened next. On May 7, 1918, federal arrest warrants
were issued for Joseph Rutherford and seven associates. They were charged with causing
insubordination, disloyalty, and refusal of duty in the military and naval forces of the United
States. A month later, they were pronounced guilty and given concurrent sentences ranging from
10 to 20 years in a federal penitentiary. The Brooklyn tabernacle was sold,
and remaining operations were transferred back to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. These were dark and
confusing times, but Jehovah would not abandon his courageous people. On March 26, 1919, brother
Rutherford and his associates were released. Seeking Jehovah's will, brother Rutherford scheduled
a public meeting in Los Angeles, California on May 4, 1919. It was a test where people still
interested in the Bible's message. Within 20 minutes after the doors opened, the auditorium was
filled to capacity. About 3,500 showed up, and another 600 were turned away with the promise
that an overflow meeting would be held the following day. An additional 1,500 showed up to hear
the second talk. There was clearly much more work to do. Bethel operations were moved back to Brooklyn.
Plans were made immediately for the 1919 Cedar Point Convention, which was held four months
later, a turning point that reignited the preaching work. New tools, including the Golden Age
magazine, were released. A service department was established at Bethel. Service directors were
appointed to organize preaching in each congregation, and as we now understand, the faithful and discrete
slave was commissioned to feed God's flock. Isaiah chapter 46 verse 8 says, remember this, and take
courage. Remember how these faithful ones preached an unpopular message. How they move forward,
despite unrealized expectations. How they stayed loyal to God's organization when others did
not. How they suffered when staying neutral in the world's wars. Remember their courageous
example and take courage now and in the days ahead. Thank you very much brother Ford for
sharing that very interesting theocratic history concerning our spiritual predecessors,
the Bible students, and you've made us very eager to visit our new museum exhibit.
But now we're going to get to enjoy another video treat. Brother Garrett Loesch of the
governing body is going to share with us some fascinating experiences from Eastern Europe.
I was serving at the Austria branch from about mid-70s to 1990. We had a small department that was
assigned to help certain countries, Eastern Europe, and that included visiting the brothers on the
ban, bringing them spiritual food, having secret meetings with them, and also the strengths
in the local organization that was exposed to persecution and ban. We would print books on
Bible paper and miniature size. This way more books or literature could be taken to these countries.
The couriers they transported literature to these countries in their own private cars,
this way hundreds of books could be transported. At the border if a courier would be found transporting
literature, they would interrogate the driver, but these brothers were trained. They knew what to
say to protect the work and not give away any secrets. Usually after a day or two days,
the officials would let them go back home to their home country, but not with their car. They
had to have public transportation because the cars would be confiscated. But the brothers had
the spirit of sacrifice they were willing to. But the majority got through and actually every year
thousands of miniature books were transported secretly to Eastern Europe. So it was not just a matter
of us being so clever in hiding things, getting it to the brothers, but we were always fully convinced
and had evidence that it was Jehovah's Holy Spirit that helped us also with transported stencils
for local production so that in their countries they could reproduce the same material with
mammographing machines. In most cases, the mammographing machines were transported secretly
by the couriers. The other method was to build it within the country. I remember there was a brother
that was a very skilled engineer and under his direction. They decided to build it themselves,
so they were self-made, offset printing presses. The brothers had a number of underground
printeries that they had dug out under their own homes. In many cases, the brothers had to do what
they did during the night because in communist countries, they had to go during the day to a factory
or whatever else and do some secular work. But it testifies to the great spirit of sacrifice that
the brothers showed to forfeit so much of their private life as a family to do at night the printing
of the spiritual food. Some had only a few hours of sleep, but they left Jehovah and the brothers so
much that they did it. There was no kingdom hall. The brothers had the secret meetings in private
homes and they would not all come at the same time because if the neighbors would see certain
persons all the time going to a specific house, there could be suspicions. And every week they had
the meetings in a different home of the brothers and this helped to protect the work so that it could
be kept secret. Singing was very important for the brothers and they didn't have to have a song
in hand. They knew the texts of the song by heart and immediately saying a number they could
sing the song that affected the heart, the emotions of the brothers so they were strengthened in their
determination to be faithful. A lot of pressure was on the brothers in Romania. The communist party
they tried to so distrust among the brothers, meeting with them separately and telling some
brothers one thing, telling other brothers something else. Sometimes it has happened that an
official posed as an interested person and was clever enough to disguise that and pretend to make
progress in the truth not only to the point of getting baptized but even to the point of becoming
an elder but he was in reality an agent of the secret police with the aim to find out everything
about the organization. So it did lead in one case that brothers started to distrust someone that
was actually appointed by headquarters and these brothers then separated from the organization that
Jehovah used and some of them were separated for not just a few years but for decades and they
were a large number up to 5,000 publishers. They continued to meet together they were preaching and
using material that they had left over from earlier years but they hardly got any new material to
study because they were not in touch with the organization that was used for headquarters.
Attempts to bring the brothers back into the organization were made from time to time but it seemed
that the brothers from the separated organization did not have sufficient trust but when we
presented to the leader of the separated group that one from the governing body would come
he was happy about that and he had enough trust in that case to agree that we should have a
meeting and seriously talk about reunification and so from the separated group there were
brother Albu who was the leader and four of his main elders and from our side there was brother
Jeris our translator and I was part of that group also there were several from the country committee
of Romania. I remember the first night there was a lot of accusations about what the others had
done and not done which did not create the best spirit and we mainly listened but everybody agreed
to meet another night and the second night obviously Jehovah wanted the brothers to unite again
and the whole spirit was different and the brothers talked the matters over and clarified some
misunderstandings and at the end of the second evening I remember the leader of the separate
group brother Albu said let's do it because if we don't do it now we may never have another
opportunity again and so the decision was made it doesn't happen every day the five thousand
brothers come back to the organization from then on all the practical things were put in place
to accomplish this reunification they were asked to merge with our congregations
and it also took a lot of humility on their part but they were willing to do it so they were
really brothers in their heart and loved the truth and so the reunification was accomplished and
it was a wonderful victory for Jehovah and against Satan reflecting on the experience with the
brothers in Romania we can see there could always be misunderstandings among humans and there could
always be even legitimate complaints about misconduct of some responsible brothers but the
important thing is never to lose trust that this is Jehovah's organization that's where Jehovah's
blessing is Jehovah sees it all Jehovah uses his Holy Spirit to keep the organization together
and what he wants to have accomplished will happen and if we work with the Holy Spirit then
Jehovah will bless our efforts and it will be successful to his praise thank you so much brother
loge for sharing those captivating experiences but now we're going to get to show you a one-minute
video trailer to what your appetite for something is coming since the beginning people have been
giving the choice some have chosen to do what is wrong authors chose to make Jehovah happy
what you do every day can make his heart rejoice I know you will make Jehovah happy we're looking
forward to this new video but the question is when will we and our children get to enjoy this video
well we're happy to inform you that in less than six months you're going to be able to have this
video now you don't look like you're too happy about that well I was teasing you I was truthful though
in less than six months much less than six months in fact right now you're going to get to enjoy
the nine-minute epic video make Jehovah happy from the beginning Jehovah has always cared about people
sadly many of them have caused him great pain but some have made him very happy
Jesus always made Jehovah happy Satan didn't like this he tried everything to get Jesus to do what
was wrong if you are a son of God tell these stones to become loaves of bread
it is written man must not live on bread alone if you are a son of God throw yourself down
for the angels will carry you on their hands so you may not strike your foot against the stone prove
again it is written you must not put Jehovah your God to the test see all this glory
it is mine and I give it to whoever I wish and all these things if you fall down and do an act of
worship to me go away to see for it is written it is Jehovah your God you must worship and it is to
him alone you must render sacred service Jesus was determined to make Jehovah happy
but this story isn't over this is your story too what do you mean dad well what you do can make
Jehovah happy our text this morning probably 27 11 do you remember what that says oh yeah it says
be wise my son and make my heart rejoice good memories of you that scripture is talking about you
what you do every day not only big things but also small things you do can make his heart rejoice
remember today's text children I know you'll make Jehovah happy let's pray okay kids it's a pop quiz
today now Sophia if you ace this test you'll be number one in the whole class number one in the whole
hey Caleb you want to play he's a loser wouldn't me play with it are you gonna play or not
there's certainly a lot of powerful lessons in that video for our young ones and even for us
and we're happy to inform you that in less than six months you'll be able to download
I don't think you're gonna fall for that again here's the real announcement some of you with
nephews nieces children or grandchildren are wondering when will these little ones be able to see
this video you'll be happy to know that the video make Jehovah happy will be posted in over
100 languages this coming Monday October the 8th on both JW broadcasting and on the JW
org website two days you'll have it now we're gonna get to enjoy an interview that will be
conducted by brother Samuel heard of the governing body and he's gonna interview four brothers
who have a lot to tell us but he's going to his best to hold him down in 19 minutes look at
the monitors please we have four brothers with us brother Stephen Hardy is serving in the Britain
branch brother Lawrence Shep is serving in Peru brother Riner Thompson's current assignment
is in the Dominican Republic and last alphabetically is brother Leon Weaver who is serving on the
United States branch committee all four of these brothers have at least two things in common
first they've all served as the branch committee coordinator of their respective branches for
a number of years and second all four have hit a milestone in life according to Psalm 1910
there these brothers are identified as being especially strong why so because their lifespan
is cresting 80 years of age it takes extra vitality and stamina to still be walking and talking
at that age and to still be making sense believe me I know I asked a retired 80 the governing body
said not until you lose it I said well brother Weaver what did all four of you find out on May 26
2014 all branch committees got a letter from the governing body and that letter told us about a new
policy and that new policy was that once a branch committee coordinator reaches the age of 80
he would not be able to serve as branch committee coordinator anymore but the branch committee
would look for a younger brother who could qualify to do that then recommend the younger brother
to be the branch committee coordinator would any of you like to describe your first thoughts when
you read that new policy well yes brother heard I remember some words of my dad he worked on
the circuit into his senior years but he would tell me say now son if you see that I'm starting to
lose it you be sure to tell me and get me to stop oftentimes we don't realize age takes a toll
on her effectiveness remember the younger man looking how far would I be able to do this work
that's how well maybe at 65 I should step off from being the coordinator that everybody retired
at 65 at 65 I felt pretty good so I went on to 70 when 70 was drifting by I felt pretty good
went on to 75 and I know if that new policy hadn't come out I'd have probably been sitting at the 85
or who knows where but really for the benefit of the work we need to have younger men experience
yes but younger and vigorous for the benefit of the work and for the benefit of those with whom
we we work on the committee much of the branch work especially with the work of the coordinator
recently has to do with modern technology so as a result of this when I was serving as coordinator
I had to use a younger spiritually minded brother to keep me up to speed as it were to what was
required so besides the aging process when the changes came I had no doubt that it was Jehovah's
decision and so then for me I was very happy to accept the change without any questions or any
doubts and then there was an additional paragraph in that policy letter that said that if a coordinate
is not yet 80 years of age but he feels that now will be the best time for a younger brother
to take on that responsibility then his request should be considered well I was just 75 at that time
but I began to realize in the coming years after a couple of years with the Britain branch
construction and relocation project I realized that the responsibilities would become even more
intense and because of the major organizational adjustments that we'd have I realized there
would be good to request a younger brother to take over I was just 79 when that change took place
that was a very modest thing to do thank you brothers for your comments
I can't help myself I have to ask this what were your wives reactions to the new policy
did they leap for joy don't don't answer that second question well Rudy thought it was a loving
arrangement for us and actually she she thought that it would be best for her and for me
and I agreed with her in our case for the herd the dance was years we've been surprised by many
reassignments and genius always been 100% cooperative with all theocratic assignments
but as assignments would come she would pack or unpack whatever was the order of the moment
with the new policy she accepted it wholeheartedly and she was happy she didn't have to pack or
unpack on this one and Anne's reaction first of all was what are you going to do so she realized
that I'm always involved with my work and I'd have plenty to do but she was fully supportive of
the arrangement you know that was the same with Olympia of course she was surprised we were all
surprised but from the very moment just a few seconds after I told her of the change she accepted
and she was willing to cooperate it because as she said she knew that this was direction
by the faithful slave Solomon asked who can find a capable wife all four of you just answered
that question beautifully I'm sure you remember the account of Marceli in 2nd Samuel chapter 19
he was very helpful to King David David offered for him to be part of the royal court
but Marceli had now turned 80 years of age he declined because he knew he would not be as useful
in the days ahead instead the privilege went to Kimham a younger man did that account come to your
mind with this policy change I was convinced that the governing body was probably using that
to consider their new changes or policy I was 80 years of age I was still strong I was still
vigorous but I do have to admit that it crossed my mind many times that it's going to come a time
chef when you're going to have to relinquish your privileges to somebody younger and so then when
the change came I accepted it as coming from Jehovah and I had no doubts that it was a direction
of the faithful slave yes I did think of Barzilli but then my mind went to his replacement Kimham
and I realized that on our branch committee we had several younger brothers who were like Kim
ham's so I was a piece with that arrangement I must admit brother heard that I reviewed this case
of Barzilli but there was one thing about what he said and did that I didn't agree with he said
that he'd like to go back to his hometown and die rather I thought I'll use my energies as much
as I can and other activities connected with our assignment I'm sure that is the spirit of all four
of you at what age did you dedicate your life to Jehovah and describe some of the privileges you
have enjoyed since then at 13 I was baptized by 17 I was in regular pioneer work at 21 by
faithful wife Jeannie and I graduated from Gillia and were assigned to Puerto Rico we went into
the missionary work in Puerto Rico for about a year and a half to learn the language and then we had
the privilege of circuit work later the governing body invited us invited me to take up the
branch committee work in Belize when it used to be called British Honduras and from there we
were transferred to Nicaragua as branch committee and from there we were deported in the revolution
in our years to Costa Rica had the privilege to work with by the chef for six years in Costa
Rican the branch committee and it was also branch building going on at that time and then we've
been for the last 30 years privileged to serve with the Dominican Republic branch committee
over the last eight years it's been our privilege to serve as headquarter's representative and branch
visits and getting to know so many faithful and hardworking beseilites in different parts of the
world it truly it's a wonderful organization to be working with and with me brother heard I was
17 when I was baptized and in 1957 I started to regular pioneer and 1965 the governing body
appointed me to be a traveling overseer and Ruby and I traveled for 12 years to 1977 and in 1977
they called us into Bethel so we've been at Bethel for the last 41 years and about 23 years ago they
invited me to visit other branches throughout the globe and we've had quite a interesting and
encouraging time doing that and we've had the privilege of you being a helper to the service
committee as a governing body since 1992 you've racked up quite a life of dedicated service
I was baptized at the age of 19 I took up the full-time service in 1958 in 1960 I was appointed
circuit overseer I served in parts of Ontario Quebec and then while serving there I was assigned to
North West Canada which included part of Alaska and after getting there only four months or so
we were called to Brooklyn to attend the newly formed the kingdom ministry school
during our visit at Brooklyn brother nor talked to some of us Canadians and he asked us would you
be willing to accept a missionary assignment without going to Gilead or this was a marvelous
opportunity and I was accepted and later assigned to Nicaragua so just after a couple years I
wanted to get married I wrote and brother nor had kind of softened his opinion about getting married
at that time so 55 years ago I married Olympia and we've been serving together in several countries we
were assigned to Costa Rica where we served together for 27 years and on the second of October we
just completed another 25 years of serving under the Peru branch I also considered a tremendous
privilege for having been assigned the privilege of visiting other branches and sharing encouragement
with them and that I've been doing for a little bit more than 20 years I'm getting tired out
just listening to the work you brothers have done over the years brother harder your story please
well I dedicated my life to Jehovah when I was 11 years old and then I started pioneering at 18
then special pioneered and when I was just 22 my wife and I were invited into the circuit work
and then in 1963 we got a surprise we were invited to Gilead and from Gilead assigned to Burundi
in Africa well we never heard of Burundi so immediately we went together a year book to find out
how many publishers there were in Burundi we looked down the list but Burundi it wasn't even on the
list so we suddenly realized we were going into virgin territory but sadly the authorities in
Burundi were not happy about that and after just four months had to leave the country and we were
reassigned to Uganda and then we served there for 10 years and again there were difficulties in
Uganda and so we were reassigned this time to Kotevoix and we served there for another 10 years
but then my wife got some medical problems and we had to return to Britain in 1983 and after
some years she died but then a little later there was a commuter Bethel sister in London Bethel
and her desire was to become a regular Bethelite and she knew the only way to do that according to her
was to marry a Bethel brother well I found her personality very attractive and what's more she was
a really spiritual person so I succumbed and so Anne and I we've been serving happily in London
Bethel since 1989 and like the other brothers I've had the privilege of serving as a headquarters
representatives and so we visited some 60 branches and have thoroughly enjoyed that thank you for that
brief overview of your lives according to my notes all told brother Hardy has served as a branch
committee member for 38 years for the last 19 years he has been the coordinator of the
Britain branch brother ship according to my calculations has served as a member of a branch
committee for 52 years and 48 of those years as the coordinator to a branch committee brother
Thompson has been serving as a branch committee member for some 50 years with 44 of those years as
the coordinator of a branch committee some of you who are newer to the organization might not realize
it but there was not an official branch committee in the United States until April the first 2001
brother weaver was appointed as a branch committee member from its inception so that is now
17 years as a member of that branch committee and he has served as the coordinator for the past 11
years being the coordinator of a branch committee is a full time job and then some so I'm sure
everyone is wondering what your new assignment entails brother Hardy well I work in the branch committee
office and I do some proofreading of letters to other branches and to the different committees of
the governing body I'm one of the three brothers assigned from the branch can be assigned to work in
the service department and one of my assignments is to include shepherding I've had a privilege of
calling personally the 97 traveling overseers and talking to them and to many of their wives
I've been able to call the 52 field missionaries and I've been able to visit personally everyone
of the Bethel family I have a goal we have 47 very faithful special pioneers that are not able to do
as much as they used to so I'm starting to call them and my goal is by the end of this calendar year
to be able to talk to every one of them the branch committee is assigned me to the
the area of what we call bread which is branch a real estate desk they've also given me the privilege
having participated in the construction of two branches to help the younger brothers take
advantage of the training programs that we have in place for them brother heard all of us are still
on the branch committee and there's still much work to do in connection with the branch committee
we have shepherding to do of traveling overseers Bethel family members we also still give our convention
assignments we will do circuit assemblies and myself personally I like to increase my
field service time with my congregation and with my wife Ruby thank you brothers for your
many decades of loyal dedicated service to Jehovah and to Kingdom interest and along with so many
long-time faithful ones it is heartwarming to hear that you fully embrace the decision of the
faithful slave even if it means relinquishing a privilege of service but that in no way has
any bearing on your zeal energy and enthusiasm for the Lord's work the governing body applies
Paul's words at 1 Corinthians 1558 to the four of you and all of the others who find themselves
in similar circumstances there it says therefore my beloved brothers be steadfast immovable always
having plenty to do in the work of the Lord knowing that your labor is not in vain in connection with
the Lord thank you for joining us and thank your wise for their unwavering support of your
many responsibilities thank you very much brother heard and company for that delightful
interview we love you five brothers very much what an encouraging program
parts two and three will be released over the next couple of weeks that will include talks given
by five members of the governing body so by the time you see all three parts you will have
heard from each member of the governing body to bring to an end this month's broadcast will
travel to Croatia Croatia is nestled between five other countries in southeastern Europe
it has many picturesque locations throughout ranging from a beautiful coastline to towering
mountain tops there are about 5,000 publishers in the country in May 2018 the first four language
group was formed the English group located in the capital city Zagreb reaches out to the many
foreign workers tourists and refugees Croatia is also experiencing growth in the sign language
and Roma fields this is the Zadar congregation in western Croatia the 120 publishers there
have been signed a vast territory which includes many islands in 2015 they were able to attend
the special convention held in Croatia and in the fall of 2018 they participated in and hosted
delegates for a special preaching campaign in their country in their local territory they make
effective use of public witnessing cards to reach out to tourists and other pastors by
there are 10 publishers in the congregation serving as regular pioneers seven as elders and four
as ministerial servants all our dear brothers and sisters in the Zadar congregation send you
their warm greetings from the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses this is JW Broadcasting